---
title: "Spanish Cycling Destinations"
date: 2019-10-01T16:51:40+01:00
description: "Spanish Cities and their cycling attributes"
draft: "true"
---

As the general route took me through major cycling cities along the eastern then southern coast, it was possible for me to look for cities that might be potential destinations to visit in the future with friends and bicycles.

This was particularly important to me, as although there are destinations that are very common knowledge throughout the cycling scene, namely Pollenca within Mallorca and Girona within Spain, I do feel these are at saturation points.

Therefore, I will be documenting the cities that I go to within Spain to look at their general pros and cons in terms of cycling.

**Girona:**
For me this is the benchmark city for a cycling destination for those who want to get away and ride on some beautiful roads with enough varitation to keep you coming back. Girona was little known in the cycling world until Lance Armstrong moved there post Festina Affair in 2000. The doping laws following the infamous scandal 1998 bust were certainly tightened in France, which included Nice where Lance and his US Postal teammates were living at the time. Therefore, he looked for alternatives. Girona is likely somewhere Lance had visited before, perhaps even for a training camp. His teammates and himself took a plunge and decided that Girona was a good base for training and importantly varied enough for spouses. But the loose doping laws weren´t the only draw of Girona, even at that time when it was still a little rough around the edges, especially in the now coveted Barri Vell which has endured a mighty resurgence since cycling tourism has taken over. Girona has many benefits for cyclists wanting to get away and spend some time riding lucious, varied and supciously smooth roads. 
Accessiblility is one of the key benefits of Girona. It has it`s own small airport, Girona Costa Brava, which operates flights from many destinations across Europe under budget airlines such as Ryanair or Jet2. Sadly, at the time of writing, flights stop operating during the off-season from mainland Europe, meaning a lack of flights from April to October. From Girona Costa Brava airport, there is a taxi that can get you into the city centre within 15 minutes. Barcelona Airport, a major international airport, is only 45 minutes away via train. Flights to Barcelona operate all year round, meaning you can still make the journey over when Girona Costa Brava airport is not operating. This means the city is particularly accessible with your bicycle.
The climate itself is particularly accomodating for most of the year. Christmas is temperate enough to enjoy a ride to the coast, and March to June you will see more rain but generally compared to typical norhtern Europe it pleasant enough to ride with a gilet and some leg warms at this time of year. The summer months can become unbearably hot, with temperatures especially as high as 40*C in July and August as we continue to see extermes of temperature. This would mean riding early. January and Feburary can bring snow and wet weather down from the pyrenees, but you still have the options to ride south away to the foothills, which are generally less impacted.
The riding itself is extremely varied. Girona is situated on a riverbed within a valley, so it is situated just above sea level. However, the surrounding area is generally mountainous, meaning you will have to climb out of the valley to reach your destination, which is usually one of the local reknowned climbs such as the Rocacorba or Els Angels. There are other climbs that are a little further out from the city, but themselves hold their own as local favourites. Mare de Deu del Mont, Sant Marti Sacalm and Santi Hilari Sacalm are examples of such climbs. Furthermore, theres two coast lines which are reasonably accessible. The coastline south over Sant Grau to Tossa Del Mar has some of the most breathtaking scenery available. Additonally, Banyoles has a stunning lake which is easily accessible and a bit flatter.
The drivers for the most part are respectful and courteous as long as you recipricate and are sensible on the road. The police rightly see the importance of upholding resident`s concerns within the city centre, and ensure that you are following their 1-way system within the Barri Vell area.
There are an abundance of cycling themed cafes and bars within the city such as La Fabrica, which along with The Service Course and Espresso Mafia, was begun by former Canadian and Orica Greenedge professional Christian Meier and his wife Amber Meier being by far the largest consortium within the city.
Furthermore, there are an abundance of well established bike shops such as BikeBreaks, EatSleepCycle, and The Service Course, which has begun to expand to Manchester and Oslo with some big names from the cycling world as investors. All of these shops offer different experiences and bicycle options for all users.

The ugly though, is the that secret is out, and it is potentially coming a bit of a themepark for cycling. I have written in more detail about that here.

**Barcelona:**

Another potentially enticing cycling destination, Barcelona has a hidden opportunity to ride your bike whilst being in a major international tourist hub. There's a huge amount of climbing around the city and a road which takes you all the way to Stignes along stunning coastline. 
The accesibility is easy, and you can fly straight into Barcelona (BCN) international airport. Failing that, there are also flights the Reus from where you can get the train. However, the size of Barcelona and the close proximity mean you are probably best just flying straight over to Barcelona Airport. The climate is similar to that of Girona, however you are instead by the coast. This can increase the likelihood of a torrential storm, so be prepared. The riding is extremely varied. You can make use of the city's new bicycle lanes to get out of the hectic city, but be warned that riding within the city centre is a little risky and dangerous just like any major city. You will tend to be on busy industrial roads to get out to the coast, and therefore it is likely best to ride on the weekend when these areas are quiet. The drivers are less attentive and more likely to take risks because of the inner city mentality. Mobiles were also a problem here. There are some great bicycle shops, but if you are heading this way be sure to check out Velodrom, a high-end cycling shop in the north of the city offering top quality cycling apparel and bicycles. There are more bicycle shops to take note of such as the Orbea Concept Store which boasts their full range. Due to it's limited acceptance of being a cycling city though be warned that it could be difficult to rent a bicycle. The congestion and red lights in the grid system become a problem.

Overall, a surprisingly good city to cycle in, but be prepared to spend time getting out of the city, and watch out for the traffic within the major urban zones.

**Reus & Tarragona:** Gaudi was born in Reus, and you can still see his house if you visit. Geographically from a satmap point of view, Reus intriuged me as a potential haven for cycling. Where as Tarragona as a city is encompassedwith busy intersections and motorway junctions, Reus is situated slightly out of this area with an area of 
